docs: Common Python Utility Functions (#134)
frappe/frappe_docs: frappe_docs/www/docs/user/en/api/utils.md

---
add_breadcrumbs: 1
title: Common Utility Functions
metatags:
  description: >
    Utility functions available in Frappe Framework
---

# Utility Functions

There are many different **utility functions** available in Frappe Framework that you can use to carry out many common operations like date formating, PDF generation and much more.

This utility methods (`utils`) can be imported from the `frappe` module (or nested modules like `frappe.utils` and `frappe.utils.data`) in any Python file of your Frappe app. This list is not at all exhaustive, you can take a peek at the Framework codebase to see what's available.

## now

`now()`

> Returns the current datetime in the format 'yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the current datetime in the format **yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss**
```

I think ** provides better emphasis than '

> 

Reviewer: Single space will have the same effect. This just makes it inconvenient to understand the visual blocks while reading the raw file. Consider getting rid of the extra empty lines before all codeblocks.

```py
from frappe.utils import now

now() # '2021-05-25 06:38:52.242515'
```

## getdate

`getdate(string_date=None)`

Converts `string_date` (yyyy-mm-dd) to `datetime.date` object. If no input is provided, current date is returned. Throws an exception if `string_date` is an invalid date string.

```py
from frappe.utils import getdate

getdate() # datetime.date(2021, 5, 25)
getdate('2000-03-18') # datetime.date(2000, 3, 18)
```

## nowdate and today

`nowdate()`

Returns current date in the format 'yyyy-mm-dd'. `today()` is an alias to `nowdate()`.

```py
from frappe.utils import today, nowdate

today() # '2021-05-25'
nowdate() # '2021-05-25'

> ```

Reviewer: Probably best to promote usage of just one of those to avoid confusion. I prefer to use the `today` API since it looks cleaner

validate_email_address(
	'some text, rushabh@erpnext.com, some other text, faris@erpnext.com, yet another no-emailic phrase.'
) # 'rushabh@erpnext.com, faris@erpnext.com'

# Invalid email address
validate_email_address('some other text') # ''
```

## validate\_phone\_number

`validate_phone_number(phone_number, throw=False)`

Returns `True` if `phone_number` (string) is a valid phone number. If `phone_number` is invalid and `throw` is `True`, `frappe.InvalidPhoneNumberError` is thrown.

```py
from frappe.utils import validate_phone_number

# Valid phone numbers
validate_phone_number('753858375') # True
validate_phone_number('+91-75385837') # True

# Invalid phone numbers
validate_phone_number('invalid') # False
validate_phone_number('87345%%', throw=True) # InvalidPhoneNumberError
```

## frappe.cache()

`cache()`

Returns the redis connection, which is an instance of class `RedisWrapper` which is inherited from the `redis.Redis` class. You can use this connection to use the Redis cache to store/retrieve key-value pairs.

```py
import frappe

cache = frappe.cache()

cache.set('name', 'frappe') # True
cache.get('name') # b'frappe'
```

## frappe.sendmail()

> `def sendmail(recipients=[], sender="", subject="No Subject", message="No Message", as_markdown=False, template=None, args=None, **kwargs)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sendmail(recipients=[], sender="", subject="No Subject", message="No Message", as_markdown=False, template=None, args=None, **kwargs)`
```

Only for the sake of consistency. 😆
